17th December 2025
Today marks 16 years since my dad was murdered at his home in Germany. 
This isn't a post about sadness, not really, and that might come across as really odd, but it's true. I loved my dad and was very much a daddy's girl, and I still love him, but I no longer miss him. Sounds really brutal, doesn't it? Don't get me wrong, I missed him for many, many years, and there were many anniversaries where I sat and cried at the loss of him. I will explain it better and in more detail in another post, but in the years after I became a parent myself, I learnt just how toxic, how narcassistic my dad was towards his three children. I realised that certain behaviours towards us bordered abuse (verbal, emotional and physical), and that my brothers and I became the anxious people we are/were, because of the way we were treated behind closed doors. There is so much that even those closest to our family just don't know, but as I said, I'll explain that in a separate post because it's so multi-faceted and complex, and I don't want it to take away from the real reason I'm writing today's post. 

The lead up to this day absolutely kills me. It's like, December starts, and my body instantly goes into an automatic state of shock. Sleep? You don't need that! Food? Let's overindulge because you're so tired you need sugar and caffeine to function!  Relaxation? Na! We'll just keep you on a high state of alert for like two months. It isn't a case of just not thinking about it.  It's trauma. It's ingrained into every part of my body and mind. It's the fact that when I'm not proactively thinking about it, my body remembers, reminds me and doesn't let me forget. I think having lost my brother a month after to, and I don't want to say natural causes because that feels so incorrect, so I'll say organ failure, qualifies me talk about the difference in having lost someone to murder and someone to illness. They are worlds apart.  Losing a grandparent who has had a long fulfilling life is still tragic, but it's not the same as losing someone to violence in the midst of their life. You don't have to worry about investigations, and police, court trials and lawyers, evidence that shocks you to your core. And more importantly, you don't have to worry about your loved one's final moments being filled with sheer terror and pain and loneliness. And so, sometimes I get the feeling people would rather I just move on from it, like most others do when their loved ones die, and I wish I could, but I accepted a long time ago that this is just me now. This is just how it is, and how it always will be. Believe me when I say, I wish things were different. As does every murder victim's family. 

I thought sporadically throughout the day what he would have been upto at that particular time. As I sat in Hotel Chocolat reflecting over a hot choc early this morning, I realised that he would have got up and gone to work at his office just like any other day. I had learnt during the investigation that my dad had been full of a bad cold or virus that he had been struggled with. He was winding things down ready to go to Malaysia the next day to see his girlfriend and her family and more than likely stay there over the festive period as they later discovered he had presents in his suitcase. It's thought that my dad left the office later that afternoon, stopping at the pharmacy on the way home to pick up my brother's usual catheters.  He went home. Two days later on the 19th, I was woken up by a message from my brother asking if we could Skype. It was super early. Whilst I waited for the laptop to load up, I went about making a cuppa, and I just had this weird feeling that whatever he wanted to talk about, was to do with our dad, and it wasn't a good feeling, either. I couldn't and have never been able to explain that instinct that I had in that moment. When the Skype call connected, my brother wanted to know if I had heard from our dad. I thought it was strange that he would ask that, as I had blocked all means of communication with him about a month before (I'll explain all of that in another post as it's fairly complex, but the main take is that I didn't want him trying to control me anymore). He explained to me that no one had heard from him and no one knew where he was. Obviously, I was like 'Well what do you mean no one knows where he is?' and it transpired that he was due to arrive at KLIA in Kuala Lumpur, but hadn't shown up. His girlfriend had been waiting at Arrivals for him, but he never came through. I then spent the next four and a half hours back and forth between various people. My brother, a secretary, the girlfriend. Police had been notified by his office staff and after they had started digging, it seemed he never actually checked in to Frankfurt airport, either. That was the moment I knew something was seriously wrong. My dad was a frequent flyer because of his business. He had various offices around the world. Malaysia, China, Germany, and I can't remember if he had one in Vietnam as well or was planning to. He travelled all the time. He never missed a flight. He counted the pennies and flights to the other side of the world cost a lot of pennies. He didn't like losing money, especially those sort of figures. He would have gone even with the worst cold, flu or virus in the world. That wouldn't have stopped him. So I knew. I also knew that it was practically unheard of for him not to check in with at least one member of his office staff. He was always calling them, every single day.  So where was he? The next thing I was asked was, who should tell my mum. My mum at this time was living in Plymouth with her boyfriend, Graham, and my disabled brother. She hadn't spoken to me for almost a year because she was furious with me that I had decided to patch up my relationship with my dad. She was of the opinion that given he cheated on her with a company employee who was half his age and a close friend of hers, and broke up our family, that we should be making a choice between them, that we most definitely could not be involved with both parents. It was her or it was him. I hadn't made a choice, but I did have to leave a uni lecture with her screaming down the phone at me after she had found out about the letter I had written to my dad wanting to work things out. She disowned me in that call then and there and told me she would no longer be helping to fund my uni fees. And so we hadn't spoken since that point. I knew if anyone called her up and said that my dad was missing, she'd just be pissed off at him and more so if he was found to be alive and well. So I told whoever it was that asked me, not to contact her. In fact I outright said that no one should say anything to her until we definitively know what's happened to him. Then at some point I had to speak to the girlfriend. This was the girl who I had sent some fairly outrageous emails to, two years earlier when I found out about the affair. I don't regret them because I was hurting at the time and in my defence, this is a girl who was the same age as me (shame on him), who not only knew he was married and had a family, but who was actively involved with that family. So it was going to be somewhat awkward, as despite me being nice to her earlier that year in an effort to patch things up with my dad, I still really didn't like her. I had always felt that she was using him and my dad was a bit of an idiot to think she truly loved him. So I spoke to her. She was a mess on the phone, hard to believe if it was legit or not. There wasn't really anything new to tell her or to learn from her and so I just said I was keep her updated. Then at around 10 or 10.30, my brother called me. The police had gone to the house and forced entry. His words will always haunt me for the rest of my life. 'They've found a body'. At first I tried to reason because it was a body, not necessarily his though. My brain went into overdrive and then when it hit I just dropped the phone and started screaming. You've all seen it. The crime drama where a person is told those exact words and the family, usually a parent, breaks down exactly like that. Well that was me. I don't know how long for. I just remember sitting back up, picking up my phone, sitting myself on the bottom of my stairs and calling the German police to speak to them.  They were so rude to me. I asked them how they knew it was him as they obviously hadn't had anyone identify him yet. 'It's not like you see on the TV Miss Meng!'. Right. Ok then. They didn't disclose anything to me about what had happened to him. It was absolutely clear in my own mind that I would be taking the next flight out there and I told them this. They gave me instructions of where to book a room at a B&B that was close to the station and when to come over. After that call, I calmly walked upstairs to my bedroom and started to pack my case with no real care of what clothes I needed (turned out to be well into the minus figures when I got there). 

Then it was time to make the call to my mum. She answered the phone and I felt I had to be swift before she got shitty with me again for disturbing her peace. 'It's me, Papa's dead'. It was that brutal. And honestly, I didn't care how I came across because I was not her biggest fan nor she mine. I heard her gasp and move away from the phone.  Then Graham came on. He started to shout at me. 'I DON'T KNOW WHAT YOU'VE JUST DONE' 'My dad's dead, Graham. I'm just calling to tell her'. I cut him off before he could finish his delightful rant at me. He wasn't expecting it. He stuttered and was very much like 'Oh, right..umm..' 'I'm just letting you know that I've booked the next flight out to Frankfurt to talk to the police'. 'Oh well obviously, if you sent me the details, I'll get your mum booked onto the same flight'. 
I met her at Birmingham airport. At this point, I had only really thought that my dad must have had some severe accident. Mostly, that he fell down what once was my nan's stone staircase, which was pretty steep, or maybe that he had had a heart attack because he had over the years told me he was struggling with Angina and needed Beta Blockers. I had no real reason to believe otherwise. Then I received a phone call from one of his friends on the way to the airport, who was going crazy with this notion that someone had done this to him. It was no accident, he said. 
When I saw her at the airport, she almost collapsed in my arms in a state. Though it was not why you would think. She decided to share with me on the plane that she had miscarried Graham's baby, and whilst yes, that is sad, I myself had already experienced a miscarriage by this point, it was not the time. She was making what happened to my dad, about her. She actually didn't want to talk about him. She just talked about her own woes the entire flight and I just sat their numb. 

When we attended the station the next day, we were promptly told that we were going to be interviewed separately to see how different our stories were. I must have been a really naive 25 year old because I thought I had gone there to have a chat about my dad and to get some info. It hadn't occurred to me that I was going to be interviewed. Interviewed about what, exactly? I was led to a room by a female officer, who quite frankly, was an absolute cow to me. Her room was set up to look comfortable, probably just how she likes her office, but I couldn't help as I saw the candles on the table in front of me, that it was also staged to make me feel comfortable so that I would give them more of what they want. She started off ok, but about 10-15 minutes in, she suddenly and rather aggressively came out with 'So do you know who would want to hit your dad around the head, then?!' And I immediately went into shock. I was very confused. 'What do you mean? I thought he had a heart attack?' 'Well why would you think that? He's already been autopsied and his heart is fine'. He had already had an autopsy. No heads up or anything. Thanks for that. It was clear by the tone of her voice that she didn't believe anything I was saying. I had to explain about having witnessed my dad collapsed on the sofa one time and how his GP had to come to him with medication, namely a spray that went on his tongue, then there were the beta blockers. There were so many questions, aggressive questions and clear disbelief. Did I know that my dad hid cash behind the paintings on the walls and where the safe was? What cash? What safe? The last time I had been in that house was March 2009, it was now December. I had very little to do with the house he lived in or with him. His girlfriend who spent the most amount of time and contact with him, would have known these things much better than me and I told her that. I said the only thing I ever knew about how my dad was about cash was that he alwaysd his his wallet under the pillow in hotel rooms and when out and about he carried a kind of man bag/pouch with him that he kept all his important documents in as well as a certain amount of cash. He was always really particular about keeping that bag close to him. But I never lived in the house he was living in and attacked in. I previously lived in the smaller house attached next door. When my nan died in I think 2006 or 2007, he moved into that house and had it all redone. I moved back to Bournemouth in 2003 to continue my studies and build a career for myself. It was really hard having to explain every single thing to her, every decision, every memory, every action. She didn't believe me that I had no idea about a safe. And I didn't. If he had one, he certainly didn't tell me about it and there was nothing during my March trip that made me think he did have one. But that was the thing, after my parents split up, my dad had become quite secretive and distant towards us, his children. he didn't really bother with us anything and I think in some way, he felt that he was moving to a more relaxing, more uncomplicated life with his girlfriend, probably with the intention to move or spend a good part of the year out in Malaysia. I don't think my dad cared much for us towards the end because he was so caught up with his new life with his girlfriend. The contact we had with him was very minimal, and typically, he generally only contacted us when he wanted something. I couldn't tell you how long I was in that room for. What I did know was that everything I had said had been typed up into a statement and I had to sign it. It was over 9 pages long. 

My brother flew in from Malaysia the next day. Not lnog after him came the girlfriend and this hugely complicated things, as the police had advised her to stay in the same B&B as us and my mum flew into a rage when she saw her. I had to push her back at one point and get her to compose herself somewhat. When she did arrive at the B&B, I went over to her and gave her hug and said that we're all in this together now and that my dad would want us to be together. I tried, even if I didn't fully believe what I was telling her. We escorted her to the station when it was her turn. I sat next to her in the waiting room. I asked her, given that she had spent a lot more time with him over the past few years, whether she could email me a recent photo of him for the funeral. She told me no. That she wanted to keep all the photos for herself. All I could say was 'ok', but inside I was struggling. I asked for an emailed copy, not even a real one. For his funeral. Something so basic and necessary was being denied and I could not get my head round why she had said it, especially when I was actively trying my best to get on with her and makes things more comfortable for her. She went in when called and when she came out, well, it was like two different people. Fragile and upset beforehand, power woman marching down the corridor, unapologetic. After that, she barely spoke a word to me. It later transpired that my dad's puppy, or rather their puppy, had been witness to the attack and was left with the body for the two days it was there and after processing (swabs, dna, hair), they had placed it into a shelter. She had tried to collect this dog, but under German law, we the children and spouse, as my parents were still married, inherited everything automatically because there was no will that had surfaced yet. This meant that she legally had no entitlement over the dog, even though it was a dog they had picked out here in the UK, together. It was a 50/50 split. My mum inherited 50% and the other 50% was split between the children. I was happy to give her the dog, but my mum, feeling vengeful and wanting to make everything as difficult for the girl as possible, she refused. She didn't care about what happened to the dog, she just didn't want her to have it. Once last act of revenge. This annoyed me so much. It started a spiral of vengefulness between the two women. The girlfriend eventually flew back out to Malaysia and went about closing the office down over there and ripping every single thing out that she could. The office had been registered in one of my mum's brother's names and so they went after him wanting money for damages. My mum couldn't pay him and he fell out with her over it. I ended up taking the dog because I felt I couldn't just leave the last thing my dad had with him, in a shelter. Later down the line, this would be the same dog my abusive ex-husband refused to return to me and never allowed me to see him again. 

At some point during the few days in Germany, my mum insisted on dragging the three of us to his office to look for a will. His girlfriend had claimed there was a will, but it of course, left everything to her (of course!). So my mum probably felt that there was no way that was ever happening and so we had to go there, and watch her turn that office inside out looking for an alternative one. Obviously police presence were there throughout, which i felt was horrible because I felt like I was being watched the entire time. Going into my dad's room at the office, was heartbreaking for me. To see where he was so very recently. I sat in his chair and looked at how he left his table. I thought about how everything would still have his finger prints on, the last little bit that showed he existed. That made me scared to touch anything. Whilst I was sat there, my mum came marching in demanding why I wasn't helping her look. She wasn't grieving and didn't care that I was. I had no intention on looking for a will because I simply didn't care for it. I just wanted to sit there in peace and remember my dad and how he left his stuff. She thrust a porn mag in my face. 'SEE!! Look at the sort of thing he was upto!' 'I don't care. You weren't together, he could do what he wanted, and besides, porn really is not a big deal'. I wasn't bothered by the discovery of a porn mag. But there was a cd attached to it, which looked like it could have been a home made film, again I didn't care for it, didn't want to know anything about it. It was nothing to do with either of us. My mum was trying to rage bait me and my brother, constantly throughout the 5 days there. That evening in the B&B, I watched as she thrusted various ring binder folders into my brother’s face, demanding he look at them and at what his father had done to us. It turned out, my dad had been syphoning off funds to his girlfriend’s account in Malaysia. My mum was outraged as she felt she helped build that business and so some of that money should have been hers and I can see how hurtful it must have been for her to see it went to the girl he had had an affair with, the same girl she brought into the family home for a holiday and treated as a daughter.  But here’s the thing, it may have still hurt, but she supposedly moved on with Graham. I really struggled to see how that amount of anger was justifiable, in the grand scheme of things. I mean, it’s a bit shit, but he’s dead, and nothing can be done about it now, no amount of ranting will change that, but you have two children who are grieving the loss of their dad, though this is somehow more important. I stepped forward and shouted at her to stop. She turned round to me and gave me an ‘excuse me?!’ in the worst attitude and voice you could imagine. I repeated myself. ‘Our father has just died. This is NOT important right now. Leave him alone.’  She was so angry at me, I could tell, but she slammed the folder shut. 

I remember the first 3-4 days very clearly. The last couple of days, not so much. I didn’t have any more dealings with the police. I did, however, have to arrange my dad’s funeral together with my mum. This was hard, I could tell that she didn’t really want too much thought being put into it. After all, she still hated him, she made that very apparent. We arranged for my dad to be buried in the same plot as his mother. He would have hated that as he wasn’t exactly her biggest fan, but she had a bigger plot because she initially had planned to be buried with her husband, Hans, before my dad drove a wedge between them and forced him out (yet another story I have to get into another time). We never did find a will. I thought that was so weird considering how on it he was at getting paperwork regularly signed and checked at the solicitor’s and I mean, who goes about getting various life insurance policies in place, but doesn’t actually create a will? Especially someone with his wealth.  But the will was never at the forefront of my mind. I returned to the UK to find a package from my dad had arrived the same day I got back. Posted on the day he died. It was a box of chocolates and a card, wishing me a Merry Christmas. That was utterly heartbreaking. We weren’t on good terms, hadn’t been talking because of how awful he was about me when I refused to sign his papers. Yet, on the day he died, he thought of me. From the very start, I have had to tell myself, remind myself, that I did what I did because I thought it was the very best choice for me, that I had to, for once, put myself first. For 16 years, I’ve told myself I did the right thing to protect myself, because if I didn’t, the guilt would have eaten me up alive. I would have felt it was somehow my fault. I already started to spiral about how I had pushed my mum to join Match.com, which is where she met Graham, I had effectively brought this man into our lives. At the time, I thought I was helping her to see that there were other men out there, besides my dad, the only person she had ever been with. 
I returned back to my jobless, boring life in Lichfield, totally paranoid the police or press had followed me there. I would crouch down below my landing window every time I went up or had to go down the stairs, because I was scared someone outside would see me. The German press was brutal. I felt thankful that I wasn’t living in the country so as to give me half a chance, but that also came with its own problems. The police never stayed in touch with me. They were more than happy to update my aunt who lived there, but they didn’t give two fucks about the children who were suffering from all of this.  I think I was just about holding it all together. But then came the phone call on 15th January to tell me my brother was about to die. On that night, I was on the way with my ex’s family to see some kind of play or show. No one offered to take me then and there to Plymouth, and I couldn’t drive, my ex controlled my finances so I couldn’t just go and get a train or taxi. I was dragged to this bloody show and I sat there, totally lost in my turmoil, feeling like I was drowning, desperately waiting for this thing to be over so that my ex could drive me to Plymouth. I spent 5 days with Tom. I stayed by his side, slept on the sofa next to his hospital bed in the living room, was with him almost every second of every day. Then on that final night, after a few days of him becoming so weak, he was mostly asleep, he was suddenly sat up, looking at me. I smiled at him and told him I would read him his favourite stories from his book in the morning and told him to get some sleep. I woke up a couple of hours later to unrest around me. The Marie Curie nurse was rushing round the room. Tom was agitated. He was panicking. I screamed the house down, yelling for everyone to come down now. I knew it was coming, but I was hoping so hard it wouldn’t. I could feel my heart breaking SO hard. I stood next to him, held his hand. I could see his heart beat from the outside, where he had lost so much weight, and it was going so fast and then so slow. And through all the tears streaming down my face I just kept telling him over and over that it was ok now, that he could go and that we would be ok. That he would be ok. And then he took one last breath and his eyes stopped moving, stopped blinking. He was just staring. And I was screaming out in pain. I kept waving my hand under his nose. I just needed to be sure. I kept staring at his chest, waiting for his heart to start moving. But it never came. At some point, the nurse left. Eventually, everyone left the living room and tried to get some sleep. Except me. I sat there on my knees on the floor facing his bed, staring at his body which by that point, had had the sheet drawn over his head. I stayed there for 8 hours, with his body. I wanted to die right there with him. My dad, I could compartmentalise because we had had a rocky relationship. But my brother, who I had spent my entire life being there for, caring for, who was so innocent, who had been my inspiration through life and had always been the one who shaped me into becoming who I was, who had depended on me so much, who was my little shadow, that broke me so utterly beyond repair. Even now, I can’t hold it back, can’t control myself. I write as I unsuccessfully fight back the painful tears. I broke down massively at this point. I started to realise what my ex was doing to me when he snatched the digital camera out of my hands when I was browsing through photos of Tom, telling me it was not healthy. I stayed for another couple of weeks so that we could plan his funeral. My mum had told me that we couldn’t really afford both funerals and had to make adjustments to my dad’s to give Tom a nicer funeral.  Deep down, I knew this suited her just fine. At this point, I didn’t really care what her motivation was for this. I just wanted to give my brother the send off he deserved. But my mum, she insisted on having him prepared for private open coffin viewings for the family and any friends who wanted to say goodbye. No friends came, which is probably for the best, because… have you ever seen a dead loved one who needed extra preparation because the number of meds they were on, caused their body to leak strange fluids out of every orifice? Have you ever touched their skin, straight out of the morgue? Seen their eyes glued shut? The colour of their skin that wasn’t actually the colour of their skin? It was hard. It wouldn’t have been something I opted for, but my mum gave us no choice in this and because it was something she wanted and did anything, if I hadn’t have gone along with her, I would have forever felt guilty for not saying goodbye to him in that way. The consequence for that thought, is the knowledge of what his body was like, the pictures in my head that will never leave me. 
I had received a lot of messages on Facebook from well wishers, people who knew Tom, or me or our family. People had asked for funeral details. So I put a post up with all the information. But you know, no one came. There was me, Nick, my mum, Graham, his sister and her husband, their two kids, Graham’s two kids. One of my mum’s friends who had travelled from Bournemouth. That was it. We didn’t even fill up a quarter of the room. That further broke my heart. All these people who claimed Tom was a friend, who claimed to be one of my friends, no one came. Not even any of my closest friends. No one thought, having known about what happened a month earlier to my dad, that I might need some support during my brother’s funeral. No one. I’ll be honest, I’m a little bitter over it. Tom deserved more. He deserved better. I deserved better. You really do learn what you really mean to who during these times. 
And after a couple of weeks, when it was time to go back to Lichfield, I fought my ex on it. I didn’t want to go back. I wanted to stay there, in that house in Plymouth, where my brother died. I wanted to feel close to him. But my ex insisted we go back and he flat out refused to go back alone. There were many heated discussions about it, he said he needed to go back to work, I told him he could. I didn’t have a job, though I had applied to so many since moving there, there was no real reason for me to be up there any time soon. He didn’t see it that way and lost his patience with me. On the way back, we stopped at a service station at Bridgewater. I got out the car and refused to go back in. I made a huge scene in the car park, walking away from him, going between other cars, crying, somewhat hysterical. I don’t remember how I got back into the car. Or the journey back to Lichfield. But thereafter, I felt suicidal. I would wake up every morning feeling such heaviness in my heart. I questioned each day why I would wake up to this pain, in a world where both my dad and brother didn’t exist. I wanted the universe to just take me in my sleep so that I could be with them. So that I wouldn’t have to be in this pain any more. I felt resentful that I was still alive. I felt I couldn’t actively kill myself because I still had another brother on the other side of the world to live for and I told myself that I couldn’t put him in even more pain than what I was experiencing, after all, he had lost his twin. And so, I wished very hard for quite some time, that I wouldn’t wake up, but each morning I did. Getting my job at the bead shop saved me in a way. It gave me new purpose when the only purpose I had ever had was caring for Tom. I started to live a little more, started to like life a little more. Made new friends at work. 
Over the course of 2010, I received updates about the murder investigation from my aunt, my dad’s sister.  It was so complex and so unreal. How was this my life? I felt like I was living two versions of myself. The normal version who went to work, laughed along with everyone else, did everything everyone else did, and then there was this other, almost parallel version of me, where I was tracking the online media, finding out what happened and trying to cope with the intense pain I was feeling. After I flew out from Germany back to the UK after my dad’s funeral, I received an email, around 5 or 6 days later. My mum and Graham had stayed back. They were going to sort out some things but, very inappropriately, had been banging on about how they were going to go on a lovely holiday to France after the funeral (I don’t know what she was thinking, going on a loved up holiday after her husband’s funeral). Only, they never got round to it. I had had a weird text off Graham saying they were at the house (my family home), but they were being followed. He never replied to my follow up messages. It transpires that the police had set a trap up for them and they were arrested. I was informed by email 6 days later (by email!! 6 DAYS LATER!! By a solicitor, not by the German police). They held Graham for my dad’s murder, my mum for being involved in it somehow, though they were not sure in which way.  My mum was released in August (they can hold you that long), Graham never was, he was charged with my dad’s murder. I kept a very reserved and unbiased opinion as I didn’t have any facts, I therefore didn’t make any judgements towards Graham…. Until I knew for sure. And when that came, boy was it a whammy. Graham had apparently, flown to Amsterdam under the guise that he was going on a business trip and meeting a potential client who dealt in cheese (this was the sort of thing my dad would have done, but when Graham met my mum, she convinced him to do the same, effectively trying to turn him into my dad).  From there, he hired a car at the airport and drove the exact distance to the house in Germany. He completed the same journey back. Both times going over some kind of weigh bridge/road and there was something about this that indicated the car was heavier during one stretch of the journey (my dad’s belongings were missing). When Tom was dying, and I stayed there for almost 4 weeks, he never once mentioned to me that he was in Germany the same time my dad died, in fact, he never mentioned he had gone to Germany at all. Graham later declared that yes, he went to the house, but then he goes on to change his story several times, once stating that he was paid by my mum to go deliver an envelope full of cash and leave it outside of the property for a hitman to come and take it. Another one was that he went to the front door as he wanted to talk to my dad about my brother’s car and funding, but that my dad never answered the door and he simply got back in his car and drove away. Both pretty bullshit stories, in my opinion. It’s also worth nothing that in the last 16 years, Graham didn’t once apologise to me and Nick. He never gave us any kind of acknowledgment whatsoever. If anything, his entire family rallied against my brother and I, to fiercely defend their brother/dad/uncle.  They made life incredibly hard for me, throwing about accusations against me (that I was trying to steal my mum’s things in Germany). I had, in the earlier days of the investigation, taken to supporting them, giving them info whenever I had it, calling them etc. It never occurred to me not to as I felt we were all in this together, even though it was my dad that was killed, but once Graham was charged, they all changed. His family very much treated me like it was my fault their loved one was in prison, rather than his own fault for his own terrible choices. They made a time of traumatic grief, much, much harder.  Not to mention that in that week my brother was dying, I was followed upstairs by Graham’s sister and cornered whilst simultaneously yelled at as to why I wasn’t doing more to save my brother and how I could just let him die. Despite that, I still tried my best with them. The police believed that Graham had gone to the house to intentionally kill my dad. There was no forced entry, and so my dad let his attacker in because he knew him. My dad didn’t let many into the house because simply put, my dad didn’t socialise and didn’t really spend time with friends. It wasn’t his thing. He knew Graham though, had met him a few times before. The belief is that a conversation was had about money, that Graham demanded more from my dad, and if you knew my dad, you’d know that he would have been incensed by this. A piece of paper was found in the house in Plymouth, that could have really only come from the crime scene, though the Stevensons claim it was in my mum’s belongings. I myself was asked to verify the handwriting on this little note during trial number two and so I know what was on it. It was indeed my dad’s handwriting, in his favourite colour ink – green. It was like a throwaway will that was quickly written up, leaving everything to my mum. It’s unclear whether my dad was put under duress to write it or whether he wrote it off his own back, but my dad must have know it wouldn’t be legal, Graham on the other hand, probably didn’t.  No one is really sure what then happened, but the attack followed, and it was brutal.  I was told that my dad was left alive, but eventually choked on his own blood, I don’t know how true that is, just like I don’t know if there is any truth about chloroform being used to subdue my dad. There’s so much I don’t know, so many gaps, and I’ve just had to make my peace with it that I will probably never know for sure. My dad’s puppy had been floating around somewhere amongst all of this. They never recovered his phone, laptop, manbag with all his documents and cash in. During the trial, I mentally prepared myself for him to walk. I told myself that as far as I was aware, there was no dna evidence, nothing that really physically placed him there, it was all circumstantial. In this time, believe it or not, my mum refused to talk to me. She had chosen to stand by her man regardless and didn’t want anything to do with me, because I chose not to. She later went on to blame me to others for not supporting her throughout her difficult years. 
I was called to trial as a witness. I fucking hated that I was. I was torn apart on the stand like you wouldn’t believe. To the point, I broke down crying and had to leave the room. I didn’t stay for the trial for a multitude of reasons. Mostly, because my ex wouldn’t let me, convinced me not to. I somewhat regret it as I might know more now about what happened to him (my recent requests to the German courts for the transcripts have been ignored).  But then it would have only added to the trauma, so maybe I made the right decision. 
On 11th July 2011, Graham Stevenson, of Plymouth, was found guilty by the Darmstadt court and sentenced to life. Life being 15 years. His requests for appeals were denied. 
In August 2018, I was randomly contacted by the German police via email (email again!). They were informing me that they had transferred Graham to an English prison back in the May (IN MAY!), and that the British judicial system had been in touch wanting to hear from my brother and I as to whether we felt his sentence should stay the same, whether it should be shortened or extended. I mean, I couldn’t quite believe I was even being asked this. Being very pregnant at the time as well, the email sent me having a break down at work.  We replied via my mum’s solicitor and never heard anything about it ever again. In early 2023, I found advice to get myself assigned to a Victim Liaison Officer.  They gave me one locally here in Bournemouth who came to visit me at my house. She gave me more information as to what happened after his transfer. Apparently all prisoners transferring, have to have their sentences re-checked to ensure it all falls in line with our laws over here. They did a closed, private review of the case behind closed doors in 2020.  I wasn’t made aware of this at the time. It was then decided that the sentence was just, but because of the brutality and nature of the attack and murder, they extended his sentence by another 5 years. It was honestly the biggest relief. He will be able to apply for open prison in 2027, up for parole in 2030. I will of course, fight both, but let’s be honest, we know what the prison system is like over here. He’ll get out and I’ll just have to be thankful he served the time he did and at least, up until now, hasn’t been released early on good behaviour, nor is he eligible for the new early release programme the government set up last year because of how violent the attack was. 
And now? Now I’m waiting for trial number 3 to drop….. any…day…now. It’s so complex it warrants its own post. But because my mum was rearrested, charged and imprisoned in 2012 – 2024, it meant that it was never ever over. We were never really given a chance to move on, we never stood a chance at recovery or ever being normal like every one else. With it, came more courts appearances, applications, more discoveries, difficulties, regular prison phone calls, prison visits, fall outs, more media coverage, and we or better said I, as I can’t speak for my brother, spent the many years fighting to keep my head above water. That’s the extent of the trauma. It’s reoccurring. It keeps going because none of this is over and I carry on with my life whilst I wait to see if I will be once again, dragged through another court trial, knowing how much the first two utterly destroyed me. People look at me. They see someone who probably enjoys life, who laughs along, who has not a care in the world. If only they knew. 
