Tuesday 2nd June

I woke up yesterday morning in what felt like a bubble of overwhelm that I just couldn’t pop. I had a dream that night about my mum, but mostly about Tom. Dreams about Tom are very rare these days. It sounds awful, but I’ve learnt over the years not to think too much about him, which is absolutely not what he would have wanted. He wanted to be remembered, he wanted to be a part of day to day family life. He said he wanted his urn to be in the living room so that he could always watch TV with us. Instead, it sits there at the front of my wardrobe, instantly seen as soon as you slide the door open. The grief over Tom is a very different kind of pain in comparison to what I feel for my dad. His death ripped my whole being apart. My world, my body, my soul. He was a huge part of all of those things. I was raised to be a carer, to always be there when he needed me. The relationship between us, was nothing like what most others had with their siblings. There was no arguing, no falling out, no unhappiness or resentment between us. He was my everything. I devoted so much of my life to him. I spent so much of my life at his hospital bedside or at his side during dialysis. It is, of course, hard for most to understand that level of attachment. Having children of my own now, I would say that it was more than a sister, not as strong as a parent. I’ve never really met anyone during the course of my life so far, who has had the same or very similar experience to me, though I know there must be some out there as there are many siblings who have to adjust to a life with a child who is born disabled and very ill and constantly has death hanging over them. 
The dream was so clear, though hazy now 24 hours later. It was like I had woken up and suddenly realised I had once had a brother. That he once existed and was very much a part of my life, followed by feeling as if he had just died all over again. My chest was heavy, my heart was aching something rotten. I broke down in tears whilst making tea when Steve asked me if I was ok. I wasn’t. I really wasn’t. I was overcome with guilt. SO. MUCH. GUILT. 
When our parents moved us from Bournemouth to Germany in 2000, they moved us into the side house by my Grandma’s house. It was a small 3 bedroom house. There wasn’t enough room for all of us. And so my parents chose to put Tom in a downstairs bedroom next door in my grandma’s house. Every night, he was taken there, across the small patch of grass, through her utility room and on the right was his bedroom. I think my grandma had previously used it as a guest room. My parents didn’t do much with it. They put in the furniture but didn’t decorate for him, didn’t make it his. There was an en suite. The thing is, he was dropped off, tucked in, and then whoever left him there then locked the outside utility room door and would walk back down to our house. He was locked in that house overnight. My grandma was upstairs, but she was elderly, so if the worst should have happened, there was no way she would have been able to help. She wasn’t very mobile and didn’t have a clue as to how to care for him. Had there have been a fire or a burglary, he would have 100% been screwed. He was a child. 14 when we moved but always mentally like a child much younger. I look at my own daughter now, who is 7, and I would probably say he was very much like a 6 or 7 year old. Always. Even when he died at 23. 
I felt so guilty because I should have done more. I should have fought for him more. I should have stood up to our parents to ensure his safety. I should have done so much. He was a heavily disabled child who was being locked up in another house on his own. For years. I tried to reason with myself though. Tried to tell myself that all three of us were scared of our dad. My mum took his side every time he went off at us. She never protected us, not even when it was Tom in the firing line. What was I going to do? Even at the age of 16, 17, 18, I feared my dad. I couldn’t say ‘no’ to him, ever. The backlash would have been severe. Everyone saw us as this happy family when we were outside. It wasn’t that we were unhappy, but that we lived in fear from parent show very much felt we were their property to do with what they wanted, rather than actual humans. My parents always used my brother’s disability publicly when it suited them and my mum thrived off the attention she got as the poor mother who apparently gave everything to her sick child. They both played their parts very well. 
I also felt the anger pulsate through me yesterday as I realised something new about our family. This year has really been a year of revelations for me. Pieces of a very large puzzle have slowly and randomly been coming together and things have finally started to make sense. In January, I started to work out why we had been moved to Germany in the first place. I was 15 when we moved, my brothers 13. We had only moved down to Bournemouth from Dronfield 2 years earlier. That move was put down to my dad’s business (export consultancy) and he had told us it was for that. When I look back now though, I can’t see a difference in the business. He had an office in Sheffield and one in Bournemouth.  I have absolutely no idea why we moved to Bournemouth, but I’m sure that puzzle piece will become clearer later down the line.  In March 2000, my mum told me randomly that we were moving to Germany in two weeks’ time and that I wasn’t allowed to tell anyone. There was no for sale sign outside our house, the house we had only just bought the year before. I was beyond devastated. It was an incredibly hard transition for me to have left Dronfield in the first place. Now I was being told I was moving to a country whose language I didn’t speak., 2 months before I was due to take my GCSEs. Again, for my dad’s business apparently. But that’s not what I now think it was about. 
A lot happened the year before we left. My dad took us to meet our grandma for the first time. I don’t really know why he had kept us from her all those years, he never explained it, but for some reason unbeknown to me, he wasn’t massively keen on his family. I think he just always thought he was better than everyone. Then my grandma and her husband also came to stay with us in Bournemouth for Christmas. Suddenly we were moving in with her. Sort of. We went from living in a lovely, big house where we all had a bedroom, to a very small house that couldn’t cater for us all. They moved us over because my dad wanted to start working on getting his inheritance. The house/the houses. This is my personal belief. Because I can’t see any other logical reason. They moved us to a house with not enough bedrooms. Out of choice. This is what made me angry. They placed inheritance waaaaaaay ahead of their own children’s needs. All they saw were the properties they could potentially get their hands on and therefore, my very sick brother, was made to spend every night on his own, locked in. And they didn’t see anything wrong with that. Ever since I can remember, money was a big part of my parents’ lives. They slept on a mattress on their bedroom floor, but bought a brand new Mercedes SLK that year. Priorities. It is apparent now, that they always wanted to look like they were better off, better people, then they actually were. 
The guilt yesterday consumed me entirely. I felt sick, I felt exhausted. I felt like a tsunami of tears was going to drown me for most of that day.  What made it harder and weirder, was that before I got to go downstairs in the morning, both T and G came to my room suddenly asking questions about Tom and wanting to slide the wardrobe open so that they could see him. This only heightened what I was going through. 
I’ve survived all these years because I have had to compartmentalise. It all gets pushed into a teeny tiny box and that then gets buried really deep into the corners of my heart.  It’s like that suitcase you’ve packed too much into and it’s trying to burst open, but you sit on it and put all your weight and strength into shutting it. It is exactly like that. I come across as being absolutely fine. I work very hard to give myself the ‘normal’ life most others around me have. To be able to give my children the normality they deserve and to preserve their innocence for as long as possible. It is mentally and emotionally exhausting. Every single day. But I have to do it so that I also can have a chance at a decent life in spite of all the crappy trauma that he has come my way (and keeps coming). 
This week though, I miss Tom so very much. I miss that I once had two brothers. I miss the phone calls. I miss his smell and his voice. I worked out yesterday that in 8 years time, I will have been alive without him in my life longer than he was actually in it. That will be a difficult day when it comes. I see a lot of Tom in G. The mannerisms, the innocence. The humour. The autism. It is both a comfort and painful. 
I’ll be spending the coming days, maybe week, maybe longer, absorbing myself in playing my Nintendo Switch. Gaming was one of Tom’s last pleasures. It also helps me to regulate my own emotions by distracting me enough help me push everything back down. Something that reading and bullet journalling just doesn’t do. 
He was such a lovely little human. 
